# EC2 - Elastic Compute Cloud

## EC2 101
A web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

Reduces time required to boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

### EC2 Pricing Models
1. On Demand
    * Allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
2. Reserved
    * Provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on hourly charges for an instance.
    * Contract Terms are 1 Year or 3 Years Terms.
3. Spot
    * Enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capcacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times.
4. Dedicated Hosts
    * Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use.
    * Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software liscenses.

### On Demand Pricing
For users that want the low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any up-front payment or long-term commitment

Good for applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that can not be interrupted.

Also good for applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.

### Reserved Pricing
Good for applications with steady state or predictable usage.

Applications that require reserved capacity

Users are able to make upfront payments to reduce their total computing costs even further

Comes in three types:
1. Standard Reserved Instances
    * Offer up to 75% off on demand instances. They longer the term and more up front, the greater the discount.
2. Convertible Reserved Instances:
    * Off up to 54% off on demand with capability to convert to a different instance type of equal or greater value.
3. Scheduled Reserved Instances
    * These are available to launch within the time windows you reserve, allowing you to match your capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule

### Spot Pricing
Useful for applications with flexible start and end times.

Only good for applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices

Also good for users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity.

### Dedicated Hosting Pricing
Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.

Great for liscensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.

Can be purchased On-Demand (hourly), or as a Reservatrion for up to 70% off the On-Demand price.

### EC2 - Exam Tips
A web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

Reduces time required to boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

Know the EC2 Pricing Options

Also - if the Spot instance is terminated by Amazon EC2, you will not be charged for a partial hour of usage. Howerver, if you terminate the instance yourself, you will be charged for any hour in which the instance ran.

## EC2 Instance Launch Lab - Exam Tips
Termination protection is turned off by default, you must turn it on yourself.

On an EBS-backed instance, the default action is for the root EBS volume to be deleted when the instance is terminated.
    * Any additional volumes, ny defualt, won't be.

EBS Root Volumes of your DEFAULT AMI's **CAN** now be encrypted. You can also use a third party tool to encrypt the root volume or this can be done when creating AMI's in the AWS console or using the API.
* Additional volumes can also be encrypted.

## Security Groups Lab - Exam Tips
All inbound traffic is blocked by default and all outbound traffic is allowed.
* This is because Security Groups are STATEFUL.

Changes to Security Groups take effect immediately.

You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group,
and you can have multiple security groups attached to an EC2 instances.

You cannot block specific IP addresses using Security Groups, instead use Network Access Control Lists.

You can specify allow rules, but not deny rules.

--- 
## EBS 101
What is EBS?

Elastic Block Store - it is a virtual hard disk in the cloud. 

Comes in 5 general flavors:
* General Purpose (SSD)
    * Use cases - most work loads
    * API name is gp2 - suitable for workloads up to 16,000 IOPS/volume
* Provisioned IOPS (SSD) - highest performnce SSD volume designed for mission-critical appliations
    * Use cases - Databases
    * API name is io1 - capable o fup to 64,000 IOPS 
* Throughput Optimized Hard Disk Drive
    * st1
    * 500 IOPS
    * Used for big data in data warehousing
* Cold Hard Disk Drive - lowest cost for HDD
    * sc1
    * Less frequently accessed workloads such as File servers
    * 250 IOPS
* Magnetic
    * Previous generation HDD
    * 40-200 IOPS

## EBS Volumes & Snapshots Lab - Exam Tips
Volumes exist on EBS, which you can think of as a virtual hard drive.

Snapshots exist on S3. Think of snapshots as a photograph of the disk.
* Snapshots are point in time copies of volumes.
* Snapshots are incremental, this means that only the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3.
* If it is your first snapshot it may take some time to create.

It is best practice that when taking a snapshot of a volume that serves as the root device, you should stop the instance before taking the snapshot.
* However you can take a snapshot while an instance is running.

You can create AMI's from Snapshots

You can change EBS volume sizes on the fly, including changing the size and storage type.

Volumes will ALWAYS be in the same availability zone as the EC2 instance.

To move an EC2 volume from one AZ to another, take a snapshot of it, create an AMI from the snapshot and then use the AMI to launch the EC2 instance in a new AZ.

Likewise, to move an EC3 volume from one region to another, take a snapshot of it, create an AMI from the snapshot and then copy the AMI from one region to another. Then use the copied AMI to launch the new EC2 instance in the new region.

## AMI Types - EBS vs Instance Store
You can select your AMI ( Amazon Machine Image) based on:
* Region
* Operating System
* Architecture (32-bit or 64-bit)
* Launch Permissions
* Storage for the Root Device (aka the Root Device Volume). Two options here:
    * Instance Store (EPHEMERAL STORAGE)
    * EBS Backed Volumes

All AMIs are categorized as either backed by Amazon EBS or backed by instance store

**For EBS Volumes**: The root device for an instance launched from the AMI is an Amazon EBS volume created from an Amazon EBS snapshot.

**For Instance Store Volumes**: The root device for an instance launched from the AMI  is an instance store volume created from a template stored in Amazon S3.

## AMI Types - Exam Tips
Instance Store Volumes are sometimes called Ephemeral Storage. These can not be stopped and if the underlying host fails, you will lose your data.

EBS backed instances they can be stopped and you will not lose the data if it is stopped.

With both you can reboot and not lose data.

By default, both root volumes will be deleted on termination. However, with EBS volumes, you can tell AWS to keep the root device volume. (Cant do that with instance store)

---

## ENI vs ENA vs EFA
**ENI - Elastic Network Interface** - essentially a virtual network card

**EN - Enhanced Networking** - Uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) to provide high-performance networking capabilities on supported instance types.

**EFA - Elastic Fabric Adapter** - A network device that you can attach to your Amazon EC2 instance to accelerate High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications.

### Elastic Network Interface (ENI)
Simply a virtual network card for your EC2 instances. It allows:
* A primary private IPv4 address from the IPv4 address range of your VPC
* One or more secondary private IPv4 addresses form the IPv4 address range of your VPC
* One Elastic IP address (IPv4) per private IPv4 address
* One public IPv4 address
* One of more IPv6 addresses
* One or more security groups
* A MAC address
* A source/destination check flag
* A description

When you provision and EC2 instance it will have an ENI provisioned to it automatically, and then you can add additional ones.

Scenarios for Network Interfaces:
 * Create a management network
* Use network and security appliances in your VPC
* Create dual-homed isntances with worloads/roles on distinct subnets
* Create a low-budget, high-availability solution

### Enhanced Networking (EN)
Uses a single root I/O virtualization to provide high-performance networking capabilities on supported instance types.
* Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) is a method of device virtualization that provides higher I/O performances and lower CPU utilization when compated to traditional virtualized network interfaces.

Enhanced networking provides higher bandwidth, higher packet per second (PPS) performance, and consistently lower inter-instance latencies. 

There is no additional charge for using enhanced networking, so use when you want good network performance. (restricted however by EC2 instance type)

Depending on your instance type, enhanced networking can be enabled using:
* **Elastic Network Adapter (ENA)**, which supports network speeds of up to 100 Gbps for supported instance types.

OR 

* Intel 82500 **Virtual Function (VF)** interface, which supports network speeds of up to 10 Gbps for supported instance types, This is typically used on older instances.

note: if asked on exam which is better given some scenario, choose ENA.

### Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA)
A network device that you can attach to your Amazon EC2 instance to accelerate High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications.

EFA provides lower and more consistent latency and higher throughput than the TCP transport traditionally used in cloud-based HPC systems.

EFA can use OS-bypass, which enables HPC to and machine learning applications to bypass the OS kernel and communicate directly with the EFA device. This makes it a lot faster with much lower latency. Not currently supported on Windows, currently only Linux.

### ENI ENA EFA - Exam Tips
In the exam you will be given different scenarios and you will be asked to choose whether you should use an ENI, EN, or EFA.

#### ENI
For basic networking. Perhaps you need a seperate management network to your production network or a seperate logging network and you need to do this at low cost. In this scenario use multiple ENIs for each network.

#### Enhanced Networking
For when you need speeds between 10Gbps and 100Gbps. Anywhere you need reliable, high throughput.

#### Elastic Fiber Adaptor
For when you need to accelerate High Performance Computing (HPC) and machine learning applications OR if you need to do an OS bypass. If you see a scenario question mentioning HPC or ML and asking what network adaptor you want, choose EFA.

---

## Encrypted Root Device Volumes & Snapshots - Lab
Root Device Volume is the EBS that has the OS on it.

Root Device volumes can now be encrypted upon creation, as well as after creation.

How to encrypt an unencrypted root device volume:
1. Take snapshot of EBS volume
2. Make encrypted copy of snapshot
3. Create AMI from encrypted copy
4. Use AMI to launch an EC2 with an encrypted root device volume

### Exam Tips
Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically.

Volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted automatically.

You can share snapshots, but only if they are unencrypted.
* These snapshots can be shared with other AWS accounts or made public.

You can now encrypt root device volumes upon creation of the EC2 instance.

How to encrypt an unencrypted root device volume:
1. Take snapshot of EBS volume
2. Make encrypted copy of snapshot
3. Create AMI from encrypted copy
4. Use AMI to launch an EC2 with an encrypted root device volume

---

## CloudWatch 101
What is CloudWatch?

It is a monitoring service to monitor your AWS resources, as well as the applications that you run on AWS

Monitors things like:
* Compute
    * EC2 Instances
    * Autoscaling Groups
    * Elastic Load Balancers
    * Route 53 Health Checks
* Storage and Content Delivery
    * EBS Volumes
    * Storage Gateways
    * CloudFront

CloudWatch with EC2 monitors at a host level:
* CPU
* Network
* Disk
* Status Checks

May be given an example where aske dif you should use CloudWatch or CloudTrail

AWS CloudTrail increases visibility into your user and resource activity by recording AWS Management Console actions and API calls. You can identify which users and accounts called AWS, the source IP address from which the calls were made, and when the calls occurred.

Think of CloudWatch as a watcher of performance.<br>
Think of CloudTrail as a security camera.

### CloudWatch - Exam Tips
CloudWatch is used for monitoring performance.

CloudWatch can monitor most of AWS as well as your applications that run on AWS.

CloudWatch with EC2 will monitor events every 5 minutes by default.
* You can have 1 minute intervals by turning on detailed monitoring.

You can create CloudWatch alarms, which trigger notifications
* We did this when we created the Billing Alarm in the previous section.

CloudWatch is all about performance, where CloudTrail is all about auditing.

## CloudWatch Lab - Exam Tips

Standard Monitoring is 5 minutes.

Detailed Monitoring is 1 minute.

Remember what you can do with CloudWatch:
* Dashboards - Can create awesome dashboards to see what is happening with your AWS environment
* Alarms - Allows you to set Alarms that notify you when particular thresholds are  hit
* Events - CloudWatch Events help you to respond to state changes in your AWS resources
* Logs - CloudWatch Logs allow you to aggregate, monitor and store your log data

CloudWatch monitors performance.<br>
CLoudTrail monitors API calls in the AWS Platform.

---

## AWS Command Line (CLI) Lab - Exam Tips
You can interact with AWS from anywhere in the world just by using the command line (CLI).
* You will need to set up access in IAM

Commands themselves are not in the exam, however some basic commands are useful to know for real life.

## IAM Roles to Access the Command Line Lab - Roles
Roles are more secure than storing your access key and secret access key on individual EC2 instances.

Roles are easier to manage.
* If you have some configuration applied to 100 servers, it will take forever to update each server's .aws/config file.
* If each server had a Role defined instead, updating this Role would be much quicker.

Roles can be assigned to an EC2 instance after it si crated using both the console & the command line.

Roles are universal, they can be used in any region.

## Boot Strap Scripts
By startin with `#!/bin/bash` , you can list a commands for your bash terminal to run once it begins running. The option to do this is in the Advanced Details section the Configure Instance page for EC2.


## Instance Metadata Lab - Exam Tips
Instance metadata is used to get information about an instance.
    * Such as public IP address

Command used for this is `curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/` .

Can also get user data with `curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data/` to return the boot strap script passed to the server when it is first commisioned.

---
## EFS - Elastic File System
A File Storage service for Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances. 

It's easy to use and provides a simple interface that allows you to create and configure file systems quickly and easily. With Amazon EFS, storage capacity is elastic, growing and shrinking automatically as you add and remove files, so your applications have the storage they need, whet they need it.

Similar to EBS, where you can only mount your disk to one EC2 instance. However, you can provision more than one EC2 instance per EFS.

In Lab, can install to EC2 web servers using apache, and then mount a var/www/html directory to an EFS mount point so that we only need one copy of the website. It will be stored on EFS, sp when we make changes or update it, those changes will be replicated automatically across our EC2 instances.

## EFS - Exam Tips
Supports the Network File System version 4 (NFSv4) protocol.

You only pay for the storage you use (no pre-provisioning required).

Can scale up to the petabytes

Can support up to thousands of concurrent NFS connections

Data is stored across multiple AZ's within a region

Read After Write Consistency

## Amazon FSx for Windows & Amazon FSx for Lustre
A fully managed native Microsoft Windows file system so you can move your Windows-based applications that require file storage to AWS.

### How is it different form EFS?
Windows FSx runs Windows Server Message Block (SMB)-based file services.

Designed for Windows and Windows Applications

Supports AD users, access control lists, groups and security policies, along with Distributed File System (DFS) namespaces and replication.

So if Exam as "What storage for SMB-based?", choose Windows FSx.
* EFS is for Linux only

### Amazon FSx for Lustre
Is optimized for compute-intensive workloads, such as HPC, machine learning, media data processing workflows, and electronic design automation (EDA).

You would chooose this if your processing hundreds of gigabytes per second of throughput, millions of IOPS, and sub-millisecond latencies.

### FSx for Windows & FSx for Lustre - Exam Tips
Exam will give different scenarios, asking you to choose whether you should use an EFS, FSx for Windows, or FSx for Lustre.

**EFS** - When you need distributed, highly resilient storage for Linux instances and Linux-based applications

**Amazon FSx for Windows** - When you need centralized storage for Windows-based applications such as Sharepoint, Microsoft SQL Server, Workspaces, IIS Web Server or any other native Microsoft Application

**Amazon FSx for Lustre** - When you need high-speed, high-capacity distributed storage. This will be for applications that do High Performance Computing (HPX), financial modeling, etc. Rememeber that FSx for Lustre can store data directly on S3.

---
## EC2 Placement Groups
Basically is just a way to place your EC2 instances. 

There are three types of Placement Groups:
1. Clustered Placement Groups
2. Spread Placement Groups
3. Partitioned Placement Groups

### Clustered Placement Groups
A grouping of instances within a single Availability Zone. 

Recommended for applications that need low network latency, high network throughput, or both.
* Basically a way of putting your EC2 instances very close together so that you can have lower network latency and higher network throughput.

Only certain instances can be launched in to a Cluster Placement Group

### Spread Placement Group
Basically the opposite idea as a Clustered Placement Group.

A Spread placement group is a group of instances that are each placed on distinct underlying hardware.
* So these will be placed on seperate racks, seperate network inputs, and seperate power requirements.
* This way if one rack fails, only that one EC2 isntance will be affected.

Recommended for applications that have a small number of critical instances that should be kept seperate from each other.

You can have spread placement groups inside different AZ's within a region.

### Partitioned Placement Groups
Very similar to Spread Placement Groups, however you can have multiple EC2 instances within a partition.

Divides each Placement Group into seperate logical segments called partitons, where no two partitions share the same racks.
* This allows you to isolate the impace of hardware failure within your application.

## EC2 Placement Groups - Exam Tips
Just remember the Three Types and their Uses Cases:
1. Clustered Placement Group
    * Low Network Latency / High Network Throughput
    * Will always be in the same AZ within the same region
2. Spread Placement Group
    * Individual critical EC2 instances that need to be on seperate pieces of hardware
    * So that if one EC2 instance fails, the failure is isolated to just that instance.
3. Partitioned Placement Group
    * Multiple critical EC2 instances
    * HDFS, HBase, Cassandra

A clusterd placement group can not span multiple AZ's, where a Spread or Partitioned placement group can (though they have to be within the same region)

The name you specify for a placement group must be unique within your AWS account.

Only certain types of instances can be launched in a placement group (Compute Optimized, GPW, Memory Optimized, Storage Optimized)

AWS recommends homogenous instances within clusted placement groups

You can not merge placement groups

You can move an existing instance into a placement group. Before you move the instance, the instance must be in a stopped state.
* You can move or remove an instance using the AWS CLI or an AWS SDK, but you can not via the console at this time.

---
## AWS WAF
AWS WAF is a Web Application Firewall that allows you to monitor the HTTP and HTTPS requests (on the application layer) that are forwarded to Amazon CloudFront, an application LoadBalancer or API Gateway. 

Lets you control access to your content.

You can configure conditions such as what IP addresses are allowed to make this request or what query string parameters need to be passed for this request to be allowed.

Then the application load balancer or CloudFront or API Gateway will either allow this content to be received or to give a HTTP 403 status code.

AWS WAF allows 3 different behaviors:
1. Allows all requests except the ones you specify
2. Block all request except the ones you specify
3. Count the requests that match the properties you specify

WAF provides Extra protection against web attacks using conditions you specify.

You can define conditions by using characteristics of web requests such as:
* IP addresses that the requests originate from
* Country that requests originate from
* Values in request headers
* Strings that appear in requests, either specific strings or strings that match regular expression patters
* Length of requests
* Presence of SQL code that is likely to be malicious (Known as SQL injection)
* Presence of a script that is likely to be malicious (known as cross-site scripting)

## AWS WAF - Exam Tips
In the exam you will be given different scenarios and you will be asked how to block malicious IP addresses, or protect against malicous SQL injections or cross-site scripting

* Use AWS WAF for that
* Can also use Network ACLs to block malicious IP addresses, this will be covered later in the VPC section
---
## EC2 Summary - Exam Tips
EC2 is a resizeable compute capacity in the cloud.

A way of provisioning virtual machines in the cloud.

Reduces the time requried to obtain and boot new servers isntances to minutes.

Allows you to quickly scale capacity both up and down as computing requirements change.

#### Four Different pricing models:
1. On Demand
    * Pay fixed rate by the hour with no time commitment
2. Reserved
    * Provides you with a capacity reservation, and a significant discount on hourly charges based on contract terms
3. Spot
    * Enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times
4. Dedicated Hosts
    * Physical EC2 server dedicated to you. Can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bounf software liscenses

Remember, if a Spot instance is terminated by Amazon, you will not be charged for the partial hour, However if you terminate the isntance yourself, you will be charged for any hour in which the instance ran.

#### EC2 Instance Types: (FIGHT DR MCPXZ AU)

#### EBS: Basically a virtual hard disk drive in the cloud

Termination Protection is turned off by default, you must turn it on.

On an EBS-backed instance, the default action is for the root EBS volume to be deleted when the instance is terminated.

EBS Root Volumes of your default AMI's can be encrypted. You can also use a third party tool to encrypt the root volume, or this can be done when creating AMI's in the AWS console or using the API.
* Additional volumes can also be encrypted.

#### Securtiy Groups
All inbound traffic is blocked by default

All outbound traffic is allowed

Changes to Security Groups take effect immediately

You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group

You can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 instances

Security Groups are STATEFUL, meaning when you open up port 80, it will be open for inbound and outbound traffic
* Network ACL's are STATELESS

You can not block specific IP addresses using Security Groups, instead use Network Access Control Lists.

You can always specify allow rules with security groups, but not deny rules.

#### Compare EBS Types
1. General Purpose SSD
2. Provisioned IOPS SSD
    * When you want your IOPS to go above 16,000
3. Throughput Optimized HDD
4. Cold HDD
    * lowest cost
5. EBS Magnetic 
    * older generation

Volumes exist on EBS. Think of EBS as a virtual hard disk.

Snapshots exist on S3. Think of snapshots as a photograph of the disk.
* Snapshots are point in time copies of the Volumes.
* Snapshots are incremental - meaning that only the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3.
* If this is your first snapshot, it may take some time to create -- afterwards only changes are replicated and so those will be created faster

To create a Snapshot for Amazon EBS volumes that serve as root devices, you should always stop the instance before taking the snapshot.
* This helps to keep the snapshot consistent. You can still take one on a running device

You can create AMIs from both Volumes and Snapshots

You can change EBS volume sizes on the fly, including changing the size and storage type

Volumes will always be in the same AZ as the EC2 instance

#### Migrating EBS
To move an EC2 volume from one AZ to another, take a snapshot of it, create an AMI from the snapshot and then use the AMI to launch the EC2 instance in a new AZ

To move an EC2 volume from one region to another, do the same thing, only after after creating the AMI, copy it to another region and use this copied AMI to launch the new EC2 instance in the new region

#### EBS Encryption
Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically

Volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted automatically

You can share snapshots, but only if theya re unencrypted
* These snapshots can be shared with other AWS accounts or made public

#### Volumes and Snapshots
Root Device Volumes can now be encrypted -- If you have an unencrypted root device that needs to be encrypted, do the following
* Create a Snapshot of the unencrypted root device volume
* Create a copy of the Snapshot and select the encrypt option
* Create an AMI from the encrypted Snapshot
* Use the AMI to launch the new encyrpted instance

#### EBS vs Instance Store
Instance Store Volumes are sometimes called Ephemeral Storage.

Instance store volumes cannot be stopped. If the underlying host fails, you will lose your data

EBS backed instances can be stopped however, you will not lose your data if these instances are stopped.

Both can be rebooted without losing data

Be default, both ROOT volumes will be deleted on termination, However with EBS volumes, you can tell AWS to keep the root device volume

#### CloudWatch
Remember it is used for monitoring performance.

CloudWatch can monitor most of AWS as well as applications running on AWS

CloudWatch with EC2 will monitor events every 5 minutes by default.
* You can have 1 minutes intervals by turning on detailed monitoring

You can create CloudWatch alarms which will trigger notifcations

CloudWatch is all about performance. CloudTrail is all about auditing.

##### What can I do with CloudWatch?
* Create Dashboards
* Create Alarms
* Create Events to respond to state changes in AWS resources
* Create Logs

CloudTrail monitors performance. CloudTrail monitors API calls in the AWS platform
    * CloudTrail tells you who set up EC2 instance or who provisioned S3 bucket

#### The CLI
You will need to set up access with IAM

#### Roles
Roles are a more secure than storing your access key and secret access key on individual EC2 instances.

Roles are easier to manage

They can be assigned to an EC2 instance after it is created using both the console and the command line

Roles are universal -- you can use them in any region

#### Bootstrap Scripts
Run when an EC2 instance first boots

Can be a powerful way of automating software installs and updates

#### Instance Metadata and User Data
Used to get information about an instance (Such as public IP)
* To do it run a curl command with 169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data
* Or " "/user-data

#### EFS
Supports the Network File System version 4 (NFSv4) protocol

You only pay for the storage that you use (no pre-provisioning requried)

Can scale up to petabytes

Can support thousands of concurrent NFS connections

Data is stored across multiple AZ's within a region

Read After Write Consistency

#### EC2 Placement Groups
Three Different Types:
1. Clustered Placement Groups
    * Low Network Latency / High Network Throughput
    * Instances in same AZ, as close together as possible
2. Spread Placement Groups
    * For Individual Critical EC2 instances
3. Partitioned Placement Groups
    * For Multiple EC2 instances HDFS, HBase, and Cassandra

A clustered placement group can not span multiple AZ's
* A spread and partitioned group can

The name you specify for a placement group must be unique within your own AWS account

Only certain types of instances can be launched in a placement group (Compute Optimized, GPU, Memory Optimized, Storage Optimized)

AWS recommend homogenous instances within the clustered placement groups

You can not merge placement groups, and you can not move an exisiting instance into a placement group
* What you can do is create an AMI from your exisitng instance, launch the new instance from the AMI into a placement group